# Projects
## Genome Analysis
## Statistical Analysis
## Treasure Hunt Game
##### This game was made utilizing Python, Flask, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and SQL to make a website that lets someone play a game that I designed called Treasure Hunt. The player is stuck on an island and needs to find the island’s treasure while also avoiding landmines using their landmine detector. The player can reveal tiles by clicking on them. If a tile turns cyan, then that means that a treasure has been found and the number of “Treasures Left” above the game board decreases. If a tile reveals a number, then that means that there is a certain number of landmines surrounding that tile. Clicking the “?” button below the game board will allow the player to mark tiles that they think are landmines. If a player finds all of the treasures, the player wins! But if the player clicks on a landmine, the player loses and the game reveals the locations of all the treasures and landmines.
## Dino Aliens! Game
##### This game was made using Scratch from scratch.mit.edu and is called "Dino Aliens!" It starts in a savanna where the player will watch an short introduction animation. An orange cat will skip across the screen and start talking to the player. But then a spaceship descends from the sky! The cat then reveals that it is a superhero called SuperCat. While it flies around the screen in the background, it tells the player to fight the dinosaur mobs using a small chick that can shoot a lasers out of its mouth. The player will need to use their arrow keys and spacebar for this game. 
##### There are a total of 3 levels. To pass the first level the payer must kill 15 dinosaurs. To pass the 2nd level, the player must kill a total of 100 dinosaurs. The third level is unbeatable since it never ends. Each level has progressively more dinosaurs that grow faster with each level.   Throughout the levels, SuperCat chases spaceships in the sky while the player defeats dinosaurs on the ground. The game is meant to be unbeatable but the player can enjoy getting as high a score as they can.
##### https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/865405666
