# Treasure Hunt
## Description:
My project utilizes python, Flask, SQL, html, CSS, and JavaScript to make a website that lets someone play my game called Treasure Hunt.
### Game Summary:
The player is stuck on an island and needs to find the island’s treasure while also avoiding landmines using their landmine detector. The player can reveal tiles by clicking on them. If a tile turns cyan, then that means that a treasure has been found and the number of “Treasures Left” above the game board decreases. If a tile reveals a number, then that means that there is a certain number of landmines surrounding that tile. Clicking the “?” button below the game board will allow the player to mark tiles that they think are landmines. If a player finds all of the treasures, the player wins! But if the player clicks on a landmine, the player loses and the game reveals the locations of all the treasures and landmines.
### Inspiration:
My inspiration for this project was the game Minesweeper. I used to play this game all the time when I was a child but always found the game of avoiding landmines to be too simple. In my game, I’ve added the treasure elements as an extra stimulus for the player. I also wanted a way to keep track of the total number of games I played and how many of those games I won so that I could estimate my own skill level. By creating an account on my website, the user will be able to play the game and see their own win statistics.
## Files:
### Static:
* styles.css contains the stylistic elements used in my website. It makes the background color of the website blue, the font Comic Sans, and the font color white. It also sets the size restrictions for images which also helps the site adjust itself according to the screen size. There are also different colors for the landmine numbers in the game depending on the number of landlines nearby.
* treasurehunt.js contains the JavaScript code that makes the game run. This file is the star of the entire project since I had to read up on a lot of the JavaScript documentation and watch numerous tutorials in order to make this game. I learned so many new things and this part of the project took the majority of my time but it was also the funnest part of my project. This file went through many revisions and made me constantly debate on how I wanted my game to be played. At first, this game was going to be a regular minesweeper game and was initially written purely in Python to be played via the command line. Then I wanted to add my own little spin, something more than just a minesweeper game so I added things for the player to collect called treasures. But then I realized when testing the gameplay that typing in coordinates for each tile thatI wanted revealed was infuriating as a player and it would be much easier to click on the tiles. Then it was only a matter of translating my python code to JavaScript similar to what we did for the sentimental CS50 problem set when we finished learning C and started learning Python as well as adding more code to update the player statistics and make the player’s gameplay experience better.
#### Images:
* click.png is an example of clicking tiles that are not landmines or treasures.
* landmine.png is an example of what happens after clicking on a landmine.
* mark.png is an example of what happens after marking some tiles.
* number.png is an example of what happens when clicking on a tile reveals a number.
* startgame.png is what the player first sees when they click on “Warm Up” in the Navigation Bar.
* treasure.png is what happens when clicking on a tile turns it cyan.
### Templates:
* apology.html is the error page that tells the user what went wrong when using my website such as typing in an invalid username/password when logging in.
* directions.html is the page that shows the user how to play the treasure hunt game as well as pictures and examples to further guide the user’s understanding of the gameplay.
* index.html is the homepage where the user can see how many games they have played and how many of those games that they won.
* layout.html contains the general layout of each of the website’s pages outside the html body tags. Much of this code is inspired by the layout in problem set 9.
* login.html is the page that prompts the user to log in using their username and password. This was heavily inspired by problem set 9.
* register.html is the page that prompts the user to make their account by choosing a username and password. This was heavily inspired by problem set 9.
* startgame.html is the page that lets the user play the game treasure hunt. This game will be included in the total number of hands played and/or won via a form tag in this file that takes no user input but has an action and method for submission. I debated on whether or not the form should submit the number 1 to be added to the database but decided against it. This way, if the player has knowledge of html they won’t be able to change the number of games they won and submit that number.
* warmup.html is the page that lets the user play an easier version of the game treasure hunt. this game is not included in the total number of games played and/or won.
* win.html is the page that the user is redirected to after winning a game from startgame.html.
### app.py
This file contains the python code that utilizes Flask app routing in order to map the URLs to specific functions that will handle the logic and actions for that URL. The configuration of sessions as well as the logout functions were taken from CS50’s problem set 9 while the rest of the file was written by me. I had some trouble deciding whether or not I wanted to include the configuration of sessions and the login and logout functions since I did not write them but I wanted to include them because I truly thought it would be nice to have the players have their own accounts to keep track of their skill. I do not in any way take credit for the code that was not written by me and this is also stated at the top of this file in a comment.
#### Functions written by me for app.py
* index(): This holds the logic needed to obtain the player statistics and then display them in the homepage.
* directions(): This will send the user to the directions page.
* startgame(): This will send the user to a page to start the game. I had some trouble designing this section because I initially wanted to use the GET method since I had only wanted the player to just play the game. I debated on whether I should design the function to even take in any input because I was not sure if the player would even be interested in anything else but winning. But then my friend said when playing solitaire that it would be nice if the game kept track of how many games she played and won just so she could feel confident in her own abilities. It was because of her comment that I decided to change the design of this function to update the number of games the user played in the database.
* warmup(): This will send the user to start the warm up game. When I worked on this function, I ran into the same debate as I did with startgame(). In the end I decided that the player wouldn’t be interested enough in the easier warm up game to want to keep track of the number of games played.
* win(): This function will receive a signal from the website in the form of POST and then it will update the database. This function endured many changes resulting from my many debates on what information I wanted it to do and recorded. Even though a form is submitted in the html and JavaScript  files, this function doesn’t actually try to get the information that the form sends because there is no information. This wasn’t always the case though. It used to send the number 1 so that it would tell the function to add 1 win to the number of wins the user had. But then I remembered in class that the user might use their knowledge of  html in order to change the number 1 to maybe a higher number in order to skew their statistics. I read the html documentation for the form tag and experimented with the form tag to see what exactly it could submit. I realized that it didn’t need an input tag in order to submit something which led me to believe that as long as the form tag uses POST and the appropriate action, then it could just send back nothing which the python code would take as a signal or confirmation that the player won.
### final.db
This file is the database of users and each user’s game statistics.
### helpers.py
The login_required function was taken from CS50’s problem set 9 while the rest of the file was written by me. I had some trouble deciding whether or not I wanted to include the login_required since I did not write them but I wanted to include them because I truly thought it would be nice to have the players have their own accounts to keep track of their skill. I do not in any way take credit for the code that was not written by me and this is also stated at the top of this file in a comment. The apology function was written by me and it simply uses jinja to send to the user the error and error code.
### requirements.txt
This file was taken from CS50’s problem set 9 and tells Flask what it needs for the website to work.


